---
title: rec-4-16-2018
tags:
    - sundry
category: life
---

## Computer Graphics

Kawase's filter is very simple. However, with a little loss of quality, it can achieve much faster blurring speed than ordinary Gaussian. KDE is going to deploy this blurring method in 5.13(launched in a few months).

Refer to [this Intel's article](https://software.intel.com/en-us/blogs/2014/07/15/an-investigation-of-fast-real-time-gpu-based-image-blur-algorithms).

First, it calculates the average of 4 neighboring blocks, and assign it to the center, like this:

```
|-----|-----|
| 1/4 | 1/4 |
|-----x-----|
| 1/4 | 1/4 |
|-----|-----|
```

And the pixel is calculated as the average of four diagonal x's.

```
x--|--x
|  |  |
|--o--|
|  |  |
x--|--x
```

So the kernel is like:


$$
\begin{bmatrix}
1/16 & 1/8 & 1/16 \\\\
1/8 & 1/4 & 1/8 \\\\
1/16 & 1/8 & 1/16 \\\\
\end{bmatrix}
$$

I just copy-pasted the Gaussian kernel in [my last post](/2018/04/13/rec-4-12-2018/)

And one can repeat until they are satisfied, for example, in the second pass, one can calculate the average of the tiles further off the diagonals, as below:

```
x . . x
. . . .
. . . .
x . . x
```

And the kernel after a second pass becomes whatever a little far from Gaussian.

## Records until Apr. 20

### Artificial Intelligence

### Database

### Programming Languages

### About zsh

* It manages a stack of directories, use `dirs -v` to see the stack.
* The command `pushd` pushes a directory into stack, and changes the current directory. If no argument is specified, it swaps the 0th and 1st element in the stack, and changes current directory.
* The command `popd` pops a directory from the stack, and change current directory to the stack.
* When one `cd`s to a new directory, it is pushed onto the stack. If one `cd`s to a directory already in the stack, the directory is swapped to the top of the stack.
* Use numbers and one can change current directory to any directory in the stack. The selected directory gets swapped to the top.

```shell
>>> dirs -v
0       ~/Downloads
1       ~
>>> pushd ~/Desktop  
~/Desktop ~/Downloads ~
>>> dirs -v
0       ~/Desktop
1       ~/Downloads
2       ~
>>> 1
~/Downloads
>>> dirs -v     
0       ~/Downloads
1       ~/Desktop
2       ~
```

After the `1` command, current directory is changed to `~/Downloads`.

### About Archlinux

* It provides installation of python packages like pypi. To overwrite pip ones, use `pacman -S --force`
* To remove a package with its dependencies, use `pacman -Rs <packagename>`.
* To remove a package with those which depend on it, use `pacman -Rc <packagename>`.

### About Yubikey

* Install `yubikey-manager` package
* It needs `python-fido2`, which is not listed as a dependency in Archlinux repo and needed to be installed from pypi or AUR
* The AUR package of `python-fido2` requires a GPG key to be added to the keyring of someone called Emil from Yubico.

## Misc
> テケテンテテン