---
title: rec-4-26-2018
tags: 
    - sundry
category: diary
---

## Computing Method

### Jacobi iterative method

In the equation {% katex %}
Ax = b
{% endkatex %},

let D = sum(A, 1), then
{% katex %}

(D+A-D)x = Ax = b\\
DX = (D-A)x+b

{% endkatex %}
So,
{% katex %}

X^{(k+1)} = D'(D-A)x^{(k)}+b

{% endkatex %}

Condition of convergence:

Row diagonal dominance:

Each diagonal element has an absolute value greater than the sum of the absolute values of other elements in the same row, namely

{% katex %}

\left|a_{jj}\right| \ge \sum_{i\neq j} \left|a_{ji}\right| \ for\ all\ j

{% endkatex %}

Swap {% katex %}
i
{% endkatex %} and {% katex %}
j
{% endkatex %} in the above {% katex %}
a_{ji}
{% endkatex %}, we've got the definition of column diagonal dominance.

If the above A is strictly diagonally dominant, then Jacobi method is convergent.

Proof:

The point is to prove each of {% katex %}
D^{-1}(D-A)
{% endkatex %}'s eigenvalues have absolute value less than 1.

Lemma 1(Levy–Desplanques theorem): A strictly diagonally dominant matrix is non-singular. 

### Gauss-Seidel

Let {% katex %}
A=D+L+U
{% endkatex %}, where D is diagonal, L is lower-triangle, U is upper-triangle.

{% katex %}

AX=(D+L+U)X=(D+L)X+UX=b\\
(D+L)X=-UX+b\\

{% endkatex %}
Make it iterative:
{% katex %}

(D+L)X^{(k+1)}=-UX^{(k)}+b

{% endkatex %}
Then we have:
{% katex %}

X^{(k+1)}=-(D+L)^{-1}UX^{(k)}+(D+L)^{-1}b

{% endkatex %}

* Generally the same as Jacobi

* Jacobi is {% katex %}
x_2 = R * x_1 + g
{% endkatex %}, whereas Gauss-Seidel is {% katex %}
x_2 = R * x_2 + g
{% endkatex %}.

## Record of Apr. 28, 2018

### Computer Architecture

#### Tomasulo Algorithm

##### Difference from scoreboard

* Use reservation stations as a way to store the operands and results of the instructions
  * Rename registers in the instructions with the name of the RS's -> avoid WAW and WAR hazard.
  * Since RS's are more than registers, it allows space for more aggressive optimization.
* Operands are passed to float units from reservation stations rather than registers, and the results of float-point operations are boardcasted using common data bus
* Load and save buffers are seen as reservation stations as well.

##### Three steps

1. Issue: If there's free reserve stations, issue the instruction with register renaming
2. Execution: If the operands are ready, execute the instruction
3. Write result: write results in RS's to corresponding places