---
title: 'Records of 4/7 to 4/9, 2018'
date: 2018-04-10 15:12:01
tags:
    - diary
lang: en
label: record 2018.4.7
---

## Records for 4-5 and 4-6

Dancing disco at the cementry.

## About Mathematica

Mathematica 11 could not be started after a freetype upgrade.

When run in command line, it emits an error like [this](https://bugs.archlinux.org/task/57948).

According to [the gentoo forum site](https://forums.gentoo.org/viewtopic-p-8198000.html?sid=ab27c1ca8e1927691858595185e18284). Mathematica has its own libraries, and it calls the system library of freetype.

Forcing Mathematica to use the system library by removing `libfreetype.so.6` and `libz.so.1` in `${TopDirectory}/SystemFiles/Libraries/Linux-x86-64` could solve the problem.

## About R

To do a linear fit by this:

```r
x <- c(...)
y <- c(...)
fit <- lm(y ~ x)
```

## The one who wrote this article fell asleep halfway...


# Rec 4.8

## Computing Method


If f(x) satisfies:

1. $f(x) \in [a, b], x \in [a, b]$

2. $f'$ is Lipschitz continuous with some $K < 1$.

Then there exists a unique fixed point of f in $[a, b]$.

Existence: intermediate value theorem.

Uniqueness: reductio ad absurdum.


Newton's method:

To find $X$ s.t. $F(X) = 0$.

First $X=X_0$

$$\Delta X_0 = \left(\left.\frac{\partial F}{\partial X}\right|_{X=X_0}\right)^{'}F(X_0)$$

$$X_1=X_0+\Delta X_0$$

Likewise,

$X_2=X_1+\Delta X_1$

...

Where $\frac{\partial F}{\partial X}$ is the Jacobian matrix of $F$.

## Facts about Mozilla

* It developed Thunderbird, a program for emails, feeds, and IM and so on. And now Thunderbird is abandoned.

### Firefox

It is said starting firefox with `env MOZ_USE_XINPUT2=1 firefox` enables scrolling with a finger. Not working now.

The [bugzilla page](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1268599#c10) suggests there should be a `--enable-default-toolkit=cairo-gtk3` in the configure options shown in `about:buildconfig`.

Works now after upgrading GTK. Why.

### Firefox OS
Another abandoned project is Firefox OS. Refer to [this post](https://medium.com/@bfrancis/the-story-of-firefox-os-cb5bf796e8fb).

* Starting point: Boot to Gecko(B2G), push the envelop of the web
    * Architecture:
        * Gonk: Open Linux kernel and drivers
        * Gecko: Web runtime with open Web APIs
        * Gaia: User interface with HTML5-based Web content

* Firefox OS 1.0
    * Imitate what already existed
    * Invented a lot of APIs to talk to hardware of a smartphone from Javascript(that wouldn't come into standards)
    * Introduced packaged apps to Gecko to achieve both the offline(run apps without Internet connection) and security requirements(to secure privileged functions like calling and texting messages).
        * Packaged apps got no URLs and have to be signed by a central authority to say they are safe. -> Against the web.
* Firefox OS 1.x
    * Just chasing the coat tails of Android

* Differentiation
    * Affordable phones -> 1.3t
        * $25 smartphone: mostly done by Taipei office
    * Web -> 2.0
        * Haida: blur the line between apps and websites
        * Overshadowed by feature requests from venders

* 3.0 -> 2.5
    Come to stall and dead in the end.

# Rec 4.9

## Computer Architecture

Refer to Computer Architecture: A Quantitative Approach

### Optimization of Cache Performance

1. Nonblocking Caches to Increase Cache Bandwidth

Pipelined computers that allow out-of-order execution will benefit from this kind of  cache which can supply cache hits even during a miss.

2. Multibanked Cache


|Bank 1|Bank 2|Bank 3|Bank 4|
|---|---|---|---|
|0|1|2|3|
|4|5|6|7|
|8|9|10|11|
|12|13|14|15|

Increase bandwidth.

3. Compiler

4. Prefetching

## Programming Languages

Still, refer to [Standford's cs242](cs242.stanford.edu).

### Existential types

Interface: specify what a type should be able to do, regardless of the implementation

Implementation: concretize the interface by showing how a type can implement the interface

It has two kinds of operations: pack and unpack.

Packing is the introduction of an implementation(see [More monads in OCaml](http://blog.haberkucharsky.com/technology/2015/07/21/more-monads-in-ocaml.html)).

For example, this is an example of a monad interface:
```ocaml
module type M = sig
    type _ t
    val pure : 'a -> 'a t
    val bind : ('a -> 'b t) -> 'a t -> 'b t
end;;
```

And an implementation of it:
```ocaml
module Option:M = struct
type 'a t = Nothing | Just of 'a
let pure x = Just x
let bind f x = match x with
| Just y -> f y
| Nothing -> Nothing
end;;
```

It's an ugly example, but the point is, the detail about Option.t is erased, with only the interface(pure, bind) left.

```
utop # Option.pure 3;;
- : int Option.t = <abstr>
```

The implementation, Just 3 is not available here, and we cannot use Just to create a Option.t as well. Wait ... shit.

Forget about monads, let's go with another example:

```ocaml
module type Stack = sig
    type _ t
    val create : unit -> 'a t
    val push : 'a t -> 'a -> 'a t
    val pop : 'a t -> 'a t * 'a option
    val empty : 'a t -> bool
end;;
```

And an implementation by list here:
```ocaml
module LStack : Stack = struct
    type 'a t = 'a list
    let create = fun () -> []
    let push s x = x::s
    let pop x = match x with
        |x::xs -> xs, Some x
        |[] -> [], None
    let empty x = match x with
        |x::xs -> false
        |[] -> true
end;;
```

Everything works fine without the knowledge that `LStack` uses list for the stack. Say you create a new stack using `LStack.create`, there is no way for you to use it as a list, though it is one.

```
utop # let mystack = LStack.create ();;
val mystack : '_a LStack.t = <abstr>
utop # assert(mystack=[]);;
Error: This expression has type 'a list but an expression was expected of type
         'b LStack.t
```

That's abstraction in a nutshell.

The existential type is like this: ${*S, t} : {\exists X, T}$ means that type t, coupled with implementation S, makes a package that have an abstract type X with signature T. For the `LStack`, the analogy would be:

$$
*list \sim *S\\
\{create = \cdots, push = \cdots, pop = \cdots\} \sim t\\
\{create : \forall a.unit \rightarrow X[a],\ push : \forall a.X[a] \rightarrow a \rightarrow  X[a],\ pop : \forall a.X[a] \rightarrow X[a] * option[a]\}\sim T
$$

And there is the pack operation, which erases one or more types and introduces an implementation:
$$\frac{\Gamma \vdash t : [X\rightarrow U]T}{\Gamma \vdash \{*U, t\}\ as\ \{\exists X, T\} : \{\exists X, T\}}$$

## Misc

> 愛されたくて偽って　もっともっと自然に笑えばいいかな