---
title: diary-4-7-2023
date: 2023-04-08 02:11:18
tags:
    - game
    - mahjong
lang: en
category:
    - diary
---

I bought Fedora Remix for WSL. I feel the urge to support. Dev tool companies need money to run, but people are much less fancied by the thought of paying them even if the asking price is as few as ten dollars. 

For the first time this week — ok not the first time I'm sorry — I did Duolingo in the morning. Recently it has introduced a new mechanism: if you use it before 12pm, you can get an experience booster after 6pm; and if you use the app after 9pm you will be awarded another one the following morning. It is super powerful as it doubles the experience for 15 minutes, so people are encouraged to do it once in the morning and once at night. It is such a neat way to motivate people to form good habits.

I asked ChatGPT for some wearing advice, and I found out my need for leggings or tights — they seem so helpful for a ten degrees Celsius day like today, but only women are known to wear them. This fact bothers me so much. 

I listened to the Framework staff’s advice and took away a memory stick from the laptop. The result: it just worked. No Bluetooth lag or disconnection, no forceful shutdown — I am just over the moon.

On my way to the school, I checked passersby’s bottoms for reference. Most women wear leggings or jeans. Men wear jeans and trousers — I can’t see through them, but they should be thermal underwear. And there are people wearing shorts! How brave! If they are brave enough to wear shorts on a cool day like today, wearing leggings should be a piece of cake.
When I charged the laptop, the Bluetooth mouse was unwilling to talk to it again. It is too early for joy. Speaking of joy, I have a gathering to attend tonight. Have some drinks and play some Mahjong. I’m really looking forward to it.

Who would have thought the problem a student ran into took an extra hour?

Anyways, I arrived at my friend’s apartment at 7pm. We played a lot of pizza and ate a lot of Mahjong. The pizzas are two macaroni — I mean pepperoni — and one vegetable. They were tasty. And I drank a can of Coors Light. I played until 12:48am, biked my way home, and am deadly sleepy now. If I wrote something wrong, please forgive me.

We played Yonma and in the last, Sanma. In the final game I played, I won a hand of toitoi hatsu dora 5 which was worth 24000 points. But the player dealt in 24000 managed to pull a comeback to second place by winning a 12000 hand from the other player. “Rrrrrrrigged!” He happily said it when opening his hand. A large part of Mahjong is based on luck, so they often say it is “rigged”, parodying Trump’s claim of a rigged election.

Speaking of Trump, now he turned himself to the court. Although I do not hold a good impression of him, I do hope that he gets what he legally deserves. “We are embarrassing ourselves,” Trump said in a speech after the hearing. But he himself is the man who made the spectacles first.