---
title: Notes for 4-10
date: 2018-04-13 11:26:19
tags:
    - sundry
category:
    - life
lang: en
label: record 2018.4.10
---


## Database

### PL/SQL

#### Anonymous and named PL/SQL block
* Anonymous PL/SQL block
    * Need to compile every time
    * Not stored
* Named PL/SQL block
    * Can be stored in DB

#### Stored Procedure

Grammar:

    Procedure ::= CREATE [OR REPLACE] PROCEDURE ProcedureName '(' Parameters ')' (AS|IS) RETURN ReturnType DECLARE Declaration BEGIN Body END ';'
    Parameters ::= Nothing | Parameter {, Parameter}
    Parameter ::= ParameterName (IN|OUT|IN OUT) Type ':=' DefaultValue

* Note:
    * In the parameter list, `varchar` cannot be specified with a length.
    * MySQL has no `AS|IS` in the procedure, and `IN/OUT` is put before the parameter name.
    * In MySQL ,one has to change the delimiter before defining a procedure or function.


#### Loop statement
* for *x* in [Reverse] 1..20 loop ... end loop;
* while ... loop ... end loop;
To escape from a loop:
* exit when ...;

#### Conditional statement
* if ... then ... elseif ... end if;

#### Cursor
* Used to process a set of records. PL/SQL record variable can only store one record at a time.
* Technically, it acts like an iterator, which means one cannot **process** multiple records at the same time(though we can **store** them as a whole).
* In declaration, a cursor is declared with a SELECT statement, and we can use this cursor to access the data returned by that SELECT statement
* A cursor is bind to one specific SELECT clause, that is, one cannot bind it to another SELECT statement
* The SELECT statement is and only is executed when the cursor is OPENed(see below).
* CLOSE the cursor to free the memory space.
Synopsis:
1. Declaration
> cursor *cursor_name* is *select statement*;
2. Open cursor
> OPEN *cursor_name*;
3. Get the data
> FETCH *cursor_name* into *variable*;
* The cursor will move forward, just like python's `next` function do.
4. Check if there is no more entry
> IF NOT *cursor_name*%FOUND THEN ...;
5. Close the cursor
> CLOSE *cursor_name*;
6. For loop
Unique to Oracle.
No need to open, close, or fetch from a cursor.
> FOR *variable* in *cursor_name* LOOP
> -- do something to the variable
> END LOOP;

## Artificial Intelligence

### Knowledge base && Inferrence
    * Truth table

    * Brute force search

    * Forward chaining
        * reliable
        * completeness
            * -> only have these two properties for the knowledge bases able to be expressed with Horn clauses
            * Horn clause: a disjunction of literals with at most one unnegated literal
                * E.g. $\neg x_1 \vee \neg x_2 \vee \cdots \vee x_n \vee u$

    * Backward chaining
        * To prove q, with p->q now prove p
        * Avoid repeating by check if a clause is already proved or disproved

## Misc

Panning derives from panorama.

## 4/11 Record

### Programming Languages

#### Polymorphic Functions
* Static: cost grows exponentially with parameters
* Dynamic:
    * supply a tag when calling the function

#### Example: Overloading Equality

1. Equality was overloaded as an operator
2. Make type of equality fully polymorphic
3. Make equality polymorphic in a limited way
    * `(==) :: ''t -> ''t -> Bool`, `''t` is a type `t` with equality
    * will be a static error if `t` is not Eq type

#### Type Classes
1. Merchanism in Haskell
2. Dictionary-passing style implementation [ESOP1988]
    * Type class declaration -- dictionary
    * Name of a type class method -- label in the dictionary
    * Parametric overloading -- passing the dictionary to the function

```haskell
class Show a where
    show :: a -> String

instance Show Bool where
    show True = "True"
    show False = "False"

print :: Show a => a -> IO ()
print x = putStrLn $ show x
```

```ocaml
type 'a show = {show: 'a -> string}
let show_bool : bool show = 
{
    show = function
        | true -> "True"
        | false -> "False"
}

let print : 'a show -> 'a -> unit =
    fun {show=show} x -> print_endline (show x)
```

### Smalltalk: subtyping

* Object -> super class
         -> method table

* If interface A contains all of interface B, then A objects can also be used as B objects
    * need to look up all instances(members) at runtime

Javascript has the same problem
* v8 engine: hidden class
```javascript
function Person(first_name, last_name) {
    this.first_name = first_name;
    this.last_name = last_name;
}

var potus = new Person('D.', 'Trump');
var potrf = new Person('V.', 'Putin');
```

## Computer Architecture

### Optimizing cache

Merging write cache

### DRAM and SRAM



## Misc

> 最低だ　最低だ　最低だ