---
title: 'Records of 4/3/2018, Tue'
tags:
  - ordinary
category:
  - diary
date: 2018-04-04 09:46:59
lang: en
label: record 2018.4.3
---


## Records from 3/29 to 4/2

To be filled...

## Facts about SQL

* MySQL does not support data integrity check(that is, it parses but ignores `CHECK` constraint). 
* MariaDB was the same but started implementing it since 10.2.
* PostgreSQL is likely to support this feature.

## Facts about Arch Linux

* Arch Linux has only in its official repo MariaDB 10.1 because of [this](https://lists.archlinux.org/pipermail/arch-general/2017-September/044255.html).
* `updpkgsums` is a command line tool to update the checksums in the PKGBUILD file.
* Running `makepkg` with `-s` would install the dependencies for it, and `-i` would install the package built.
* `trizen`, `aurman` are also AUR helpers, the same as `yaourt`, `pacaur`.

## Facts about CentOS 7

* It uses Linux 3.10.
* The packages in EPEL can be very old as well.
* The lttng package in EPEL is ver 2.4.

## Fact about Oracle

It sucks.

## Facts about Input Methods

* The author of Flypy(http://www.flypy.com) is stingy about the double pinyin scheme they created -- they haunt every developer of an input method which make Flypy available -- either as preset or configurable afterwards -- without their authorization.

* Rime, GBoard, and MS IME seem not (yet) in trouble.

* The author of Flypy criticized others' approach to tackle zero-consonant characters('a', 'er', 'ou', etc.) from their perspective. Flypy uses the first and the last letter of the syllable('ee' for 'e', 'ag' for 'ang', etc.), while some others allocate a specific letter, say, 'o', for it.(That is, 'oa' for 'a', 'ol' for 'ai' for MS).

* A family of double pinyin derives from Ziranma, with minor differences. MS and Sogou are among them.

* Mozc could be configured using `/usr/lib/mozc/mozc_tool --mode=config_dialog`, where the input mode could be switched between Romaji and Kana.

## Misc

空はきれいなのに